Add `Migrate to the New Security Findings Data Model` Guide (#33083)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/guide/security-findings-migration.md

---
title: Migrating to the New Security Findings Data Model
description: Learn how to migrate to the unified Security Findings query syntax and data model, which consolidates querying across Cloud Security and Code Security findings.
private: true
further_reading:
- link: "/security/cloud_security_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Security"
- link: "/security/code_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Code Security"
- link: "/security/application_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Application Security"
---

## Overview

> The way Security Findings are queried is changing and it may impact your workflows. You notice changes to how queries are constructed in Datadog. A set of [new features](#new-features) exposing that new schema is also released as a part of the upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way queries are constructed so you can find Security Findings in Datadog is changing. While this change comes with a set of [new features](#new-features) exposing that new schema, it may also impact your existing workflows.
```

## Required action

If you are using {insert relevant APIs / Terraform resource}, plan to migrate to the new version by {deprecation date}.

> Configuration in Datadog is updated automatically, so no action is needed there.

Reviewer: Can we provide some detail on what "configuration in Datadog" means? How could a user determine what they need to change and what they can leave to us?

## What are Security Findings

Security Findings encompass vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, and security risks identified across your infrastructure and applications.

### Code Security Findings

- Library Vulnerabilities (SCA)
- Static Code Vulnerabilities (SAST)
- Secrets
- Runtime Code Vulnerabilities (IAST)
- Infrastructure as Code

### Cloud Security Findings

- Misconfigurations (CSPM)
- Host & Container Vulnerabilities
- Identity Risks (CIEM)

> - Attack Paths

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Code Security</th>
      <th>Cloud Security</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Library vulnerabilities (SCA)</li>
          <li>Static code vulnerabilities (SAST)</li>
          <li>Secrets</li>
          <li>Runtime code vulnerabilities (IAST)</li>
          <li>Infrastructure as code</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Misconfigurations (CSPM)</li>
          <li>Host & container vulnerabilities</li>
          <li>Identity risks (CIEM)</li>
          <li>Attack paths</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
```
I was playing around with formatting this and thought that a table here might save a little space 🙂

> API security findings are also produced by App & API Protection (in preview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th><a href="/security/code_security/">Code Security</a></th>
      <th><a href="/security/cloud_security_management/">Cloud Security</a></th>
      <th><a href="/security/application_security/">App & API Protection</a> (Preview)</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Library vulnerabilities (SCA)</li>
          <li>Static code vulnerabilities (SAST)</li>
          <li>Secrets</li>
          <li>Runtime code vulnerabilities (IAST)</li>
          <li>Infrastructure as code</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Misconfigurations (CSPM)</li>
          <li>Host & container vulnerabilities</li>
          <li>Identity risks (CIEM)</li>
          <li>Attack paths</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>API security findings</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
```
I was playing around with how to list out this information and thought a table might lay it out nicely. It's not the only way, though, so don't hesitate to reject if you're not a fan!

Reviewer: Also, is it accurate that App & API Protection has Preview beside it? The only Preview I see related to it is AI Guard, which is related, but I don't think it's the same thing.

## What is changing

### New querying syntax

> Following this change, all Security Findings start being queried the same way, using shared syntax and attributes organized around namespaces. Here are some practical examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following this change, you can use the same query syntax for all security findings, using attributes organized around namespaces. Here are some practical examples:
```

| Before | After |
|--------|-------|
| **Misconfigurations:** `@workflow.triage.status:open status:critical`<br>**Library vulnerabilities:** `status:open severity:Critical` | **All findings:** `@status:open @severity:critical` |
| **Misconfigurations:** `@dd_computed_attributes.is_publicly_accessible:true`<br>**Host Vulnerabilities:** `is_publicly_accessible:Accessible` | **All findings:** `@risk.is_publicly_accessible:true` |

> | **Library Vulnerabilities:** `library_name:org.apache.logging.log4j`<br>**Host Vulnerabilities:** `package:org.apache.logging.log4j` | **All findings:** `@package.name:org.apache.logging.log4j` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Before | After (all findings) |
|--------|----------------------|
| **Misconfigurations:** `@workflow.triage.status:open status:critical`<br>**Library vulnerabilities:** `status:open severity:Critical` | `@status:open @severity:critical` |
| **Misconfigurations:** `@dd_computed_attributes.is_publicly_accessible:true`<br>**Host Vulnerabilities:** `is_publicly_accessible:Accessible` | `@risk.is_publicly_accessible:true` |
| **Library Vulnerabilities:** `library_name:org.apache.logging.log4j`<br>**Host Vulnerabilities:** `package:org.apache.logging.log4j` | `@package.name:org.apache.logging.log4j` |
```
Thought we could put "all findings" into the column header so we didn't have to repeat it 🙂

View the full specification here: {insert link}

Every interface that allows querying security findings data gradually starts using the new data model:

- Explorers, dashboards, notification rules and automation pipelines will use the new syntax
- Workflow Automation

> - API & Terraform resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Moved this information higher up to help set expectations about where users can see this change.

Starting January 2026, the following features are rolled out using the new data model:

- A new unified findings public API
- Dashboard support for Code Security
- Graphing Security Findings in Datadog Sheets
- Datadog Workflow Automation support for all finding types
- Using SQL to query Security Findings and join them with other Datadog Telemetry via DDSQL

With more coming soon:

- Data Access Controls
- Datadog Security MCP
- API & Terraform support for automation pipelines

## When is it changing

Products will gradually be onboarded to the new data model:

{{< img src="security/schema-milestones.png" alt="Security Findings migration timeline showing Milestone 1 in January 2026 and Milestone 2 in April 2026" width="100%">}}

### Milestone 1: January 2026

**Migrated Findings** (use new schema):
- Misconfigurations
- Identity Risks
- Attack Paths
- IaC & API Security Findings

**Platform Updates:**
- Dashboards
- DDSQL
- Sheets
- Findings Public API

### Milestone 2: April 2026

**Remaining Findings** (use new schema):
- Cloud Security Vulnerabilities
- Code Security Findings (SCA, SAST, IAST, Secrets)

## How to prepare

- Every in-app feature will be automatically migrated.

> - Legacy API endpoints and Terraform resources will eventually be deprecated.

Reviewer: These aren't instructions on how to prepare. Can we rename the section or work the bullet points into the rest of the content on the page?
